sndpath - create/edit a sound trajectory

     sndpath [flags] [filename]

               flag:
               -b   don't print box around edge of screen

DESCRIPTION
     sndpath is an interactive program to produce and edit two
     dimensional sound trajectories or paths.  It works on ordi-
     nary CRT terminals by using the curses(3) screen control
     package.  The user is presented with a rectangle the size of
     the screen with a '+' sign in the middle indicating the
     center of the sound space.  Four numbers surround the '+'
     representing the four speakers typically used to reproduce
     such sound paths.  The user marks the locations the sound is
     to pass through in the order they occur. On command, sndpath
     draws a smooth curve (a spline function) through the points,
     creating the trajectory.  The user then writes out the
     spline function to a file.  Commands exist in sndpath to
     modify, append and delete points on the path. The area
     covered by the screen display can be scaled to represent a
     range from a few meters to many kilometers.  The spline file
     contains [x,y] coordinate pairs for each point on the path.
     The file is in text format.  Although this information can
     be utilized by any subsequent program, one such exists,
     named quad, which can be used with cmusic to actually syn-
     thesize a sound on the described path.

COMMANDS
    q	quit sndpath,
    ?	print a help message,
    u i o j l m , .	move cursor one position,
    U I O J  K L M < >	slam cursor to window edge, K to center,
    x [spacebar]	put/remove a node where cursor is,
    y p	yank a node, place a node,
    [RETURN]	draw spline curve through nodes,
    e E	erase spline curve, erase whole screen,
    f b	move forward/back to next/previous node,
    n	interpolate new point between this and next node,
    w W	write node file, write spline file,
    r a	read in node file, append node file to screen,
    t	set time of a node,
    :	enter extend mode, (extend mode commands follow:)
    z		set set zoom size (2.0),
    c		set x,y coordinates of center of terrain displayed (0 0)
    d		set distance between speakers in meters (5),
    P		print nodes,
    o		add offset to path (type two blank-separated numbers)
    s		scale path (type two blank-separated numbers)
    r		rotate path (type degrees of rotation)
    i		toggle spline interpolation mode (reset),
    n		set number of total spline points plotted (128 average),
    t		set time in seconds to scale duration of entire function,
    k		set spline constant (0),
    p		toggle spline periodic mode (reset),
    T		toggle spline time mode (set)

    Refer to the user manual for further explanation of these commands:


AUTHOR
     Gareth Loy

BUGS
    When typing in filenames, [BACKSPACE] characters are not deleted.
    So they end up in the filename.
SEE ALSO
    cmusic(1carl), quad(1carl), 
    "Sndpath - A Program to Interactively Create/Edit Sound Trajectories",
    in /mnt/tutorials/sndpath.dgl at CARL.
